# Portfolio_BPS
Learning Python through project based learning

This repository is sample code that I have written while learning Python through completing projects. 

The intent of the project was to identify and tag public companies and the board members from public companies mentioned in a set of news articles. The article_identification_1 cleans and simplifies the official names of publicly traded companies by removing excess punctuation and any excess words which may not be used when a news article refers to a company (example - "The Coca-Cola Company" would become "Coca-Cola").This simplification process was done in stages, and after, the names were checked against the 5000 most common English words. If the simplified name was in the 5000 most common English words, the name was deemed too common and, the simplification would be stepped back a stage. The code additionally checks the article titles for brands, nicknames, and conglomerate companies (example - if "Coke" was used in an article, "The Coca-Cola Company" would be tagged). These names underwent the same cleaning and processing. These two lists were merged based on the official parent company names. This final list of parent companies, conglomerates, brands, and nicknames (along with the identifying information needed for tagging) was exported to a CSV. 

The article_identification_2 imports the CSV output of the processed and cleaned companies and the names and information for the articles. The script then uses Natural Language Processing to simplify the names and content of the articles to only nouns and adjectives, limiting the words searched and limiting false tags. The script then searches the article names and article content for matches associated with all of the publicly traded companies. If a match is found, a tag is added to a list associated with the article including the full name, what was identified in the article, and the associated ID number. The same process was completed for board member's full names and associated individual ID numbers. The data frame is then exported and saved as a CSV.
